
There have been repeated efforts to replace SQL or the Relational Model (RM) (Stonebraker and Pavlo, 2024), but RM continues to be the dominant data model and SQL has ben extended to capture the good ideas from others.
1.2.2	MySQL
MySQL, renowned as the world's leading open-source relational database (Solid, 2020), is favored by tech giants like Facebook and Twitter for its reliability, performance, and user-friendly nature. It is predominantly used by professionals for web applications, and a variety of companies and software publishers offer MySQL. Depending on its function, MySQL can be either open-source or a proprietary product. It is compatible with multiple platforms, including AIX, BSDi, FreeBSD, HP-UX, Linux, Mac OS X, NetWare, NetBSD, OpenBSD, OS/2 Warp, SGI Irix, Solaris, SunOS, SCO OpenServer, SCO UnixWare, Tru64 Unix, and Windows. Additionally, databases in MySQL can be accessed using a range of programming languages such as C, C++, C#, Delphi/Kylix, Eiffel, Java, Perl, PHP, Python, Ruby, and Tcl. (Comparative Study Between the MySQL Relational Database and the MongoDB NoSQL Database).
Most OLTP applications primarly interact with databases via an abstraction layer, such as an endpoint or an object-relational mapper (ORM) library. Such layers transalate an application’s high-level requests into database queries. ORM’s are a vital tool for rapid prototyping. But they often sacrifice the ability to push logic into the DBMS in exchange for interoperability with multiple DBMSs. Developers fall back to writing explicit database queries to override the poor auto-generated queries.  This is why using a RDBMS that supports SQL is the better choice (Stonebraker and Pavlev, 2024).. 

1.4	Transactional Processing and Concurrency
OLTP database systems support the part of an application that interacts with end-users. A transaction in the context of one of these systems is the execution of a sequence of one or more operarionts on a shared database to perform some higher-level function (: Yu, Xiangyao, George Bezerra, et all, 2014). The transactions in modern OLTP workloads have three salient characteristics: (1) they are short-lived, (2) they touch a small subset of data using index look-ups, and (3) they are repetitive (] M. Stonebraker, S. Madden, D. J. Abadi, S. Harizopoulos, N. Hachem, and P. Helland, 2007).
An OLTP DBMS is expected to maintain four properties for each transaction that it executes: (1) atomicity, (2) consistency, (3) isolation, and (4) durability. Concurrency control permits end-users to access a database in a multi-programmed fashion while preserving the illusion that each of them is executing their transaction alone on a dedicated system (P. A. Bernstein and N. Goodman, 1981).
Two-Phase locking, transactions have to acquire locks for a particular element in the database before they are allowed to execute a read or write operation on that element. The transaction must acquire a read lock before it is allowed to read that element, and similarly it must acquire a write lock in order to modify that element. 

Optimistic Concurrency Control (OCC): The DBMS tracks the read/write sets of each transaction and stores all of their write operations in their private workspace. When a transaction commits, the system determines whether that transacton's rad set overlaps with the write set of any concurrent transactions.
